README.md, before:

# Firefox Sandboxing with Firejail wrapper
Wrapper for firejail for the purpose of sandboxing the Mozilla Firefox browser. This wrapper allows for seamless intergration of the sandbox and your computer environment. All firefox commands get intercepted by the wrapper's python script and then safely runs the sandbox. After the sandbox launches firefox it will make sure that the sandbox is working. If the sandbox is not registered it will pkill the program, in this case firefox.
Written by StormTheory in July2024

As of Dec 18, 2024 the Wrapper is out of Beta with a .deb installer.

# The Profile
The goal for this profile is to create a very secure but yet usable firefox sandbox. Firefox can only read or save/download files to ~/Downloads directory. If you need to upload something you have to move it to the downloads directory. This protects your files from being read or stolen without your knowledge. For Example: blocks ssh keys from being read/stolen which has been a problem before and general homespace protection. Firefox within the sandbox will not be able to take root or see very much of system files. For testing the user can join the firefox session and see what the firefox app 'sees'.

# System Requirements
In order to use this, firejail-0.9.72 or better must be installed. Tested with firejail-0.9.72.
Firejail can be found in your local software center or https://sourceforge.net/projects/firejail/

At this time Ubuntu/Mint is only tested to be supported. There may only be little work to make it RHEL/Rocky/Yum/DNF supported, please feedback if wanted. 
This will not work for App Images or Flatpak installs. If there is interest in other Linux flavors/families please let me know. 

# INSTALL
Build DEB Install file:
	./build
	Install the outputted .deb file.

Install without Package Manager:
	sandbox/install-firefox-sandbox.sh install
	sandbox/install-firefox-sandbox.sh install-service

# Overview of Data Flow
Runs from /sandbox where firefox.profile and firefox-jail.py lives. 
The firefox-launcher in /sandbox is the orginal 'firefox' command script that comes with the firefox package from mozilla. This is moved to /sandbox and renamed from /usr/bin/firefox.
The CLI command firefox which is found in /usr/bin/firefox is softlink'd to /sandbox/firefox-jail.py

NOTE: The install of the softlink will have to happen after each update of the firefox package. 
If the wrapper is to be used as designed use the by default service that checks every 90 seconds or 
it is recommended to add the install script to your automatic update post scripts.

# User Agreement:
This project is not a company or business. By using this project’s works, scripts, or code, please know that out of respect for YOU, are entitled to privacy in the highest grade. This product will not try to steal, share, collect, or sell your information. However 3rd parties such at Github may try to use your data without your consent. Users or admins should make reports of issue(s) related to the project’s product to the project to better equip or fix issues for others who may run into the same issue(s). By using this project’s works, scripts, code, or ideas you as the end user or admin agree to the following Warning statement and lack of acknowledge lack of Warranty.

WARNING: This project and it’s work does not come with a Warranty of any kind. It is on the end user or admin to preform regular backups, maintain kickstarts, verify code and or policies, and maintain their own gear and or equipment. This project will try to stay to the highest standards but will not be held accountable for any kind of mishaps that may happen while using.

Commit message:

Updates to the Readme file, trying to make it easier, and more clear.

README.md, after:

# Firefox Sandboxing with Firejail wrapper
Wrapper for firejail for the purpose of sandboxing the Mozilla Firefox browser. This wrapper allows for seamless intergration of the sandbox and your computer environment. All firefox commands get intercepted by the wrapper's python script and then safely runs the sandbox. After the sandbox launches firefox it will make sure that the sandbox is working. If the sandbox is not registered it will pkill the program, in this case firefox. As always, give us a Star on Github if you find this useful.

First written by StormTheory in July2024 and other wrappers have been made.

As of Dec 18, 2024 the Wrapper is out of Beta with a .deb installer.

Please note that the firejail project has a project called firecfg which sandboxes all programs on your system they have a default profile for, so this is similar to what they have. This wrapper project however is a little more locked down and provides more options and focused just on Firefox. 

# Security Profile
The goal for this profile is to create a very secure but yet usable firefox sandbox. Firefox can only read or save/download files to ~/Downloads directory. If you need to upload something you have to move it to the downloads directory. This protects your files from being read or stolen without your knowledge. For Example: blocks ssh keys from being read/stolen which has been a problem before and general homespace protection. Firefox within the sandbox will not be able to take root or see very much of system files. For testing the user can join the firefox session and see what the firefox app 'sees'.

If you are a CAC or SmartCard user, we got you covered. There is a --cac option that will load a special CAC/Smart Card profile allowing you to use a Smart Card.

DRM by default is disabled. DRM is needed for sites like Netflix or Disney+ for copyright material. DRM is something that is downloaded and runs from your user's home space. Use the --drm option to allow drm use. This by default protects you from most threats while allowing a way to easily enable for your streaming fix.

New option --private is a firejail command option that can also be added to your Defualt options field in the config file. By calling --private firejail will mount new /root and /home/user directories in temporary filesystems. All modifications are discarded when the sandbox is closed. Think "very temporary Firefox".

As always, let us know if there is something more needed.

# System Requirements
In order to use this, firejail-0.9.72 or better must be installed. Tested with firejail-0.9.72.
Firejail can be found in your local software center or https://sourceforge.net/projects/firejail/

At this time Ubuntu/Mint is only tested to be supported. There may only be little work to make it RHEL/Rocky/Yum/DNF supported, please feedback if wanted. 
This will not work for App Images or Flatpak installs. If there is interest in other Linux flavors/families please let me know. 

# INSTALL
1) Download the latest released .deb package file off of github and install on your system.
2) Build DEB Install file:

        ./build

        Install the outputted .deb file.

3) Install without Package Manager, run commands:

        sandbox/install-firefox-sandbox.sh install

        sandbox/install-firefox-sandbox.sh install-service


# Overview of Data Flow
Runs from /sandbox where firefox.profile and firefox-jail.py lives. 
The firefox-launcher in /sandbox is the orginal 'firefox' command script that comes with the firefox package from mozilla. This is moved to /sandbox and renamed from /usr/bin/firefox.
The CLI command firefox which is found in /usr/bin/firefox is softlink'd to /sandbox/firefox-jail.py

NOTE: The install of the softlink will have to happen after each update of the firefox package. 
If the wrapper is to be used as designed use the by default service that checks every 90 seconds or 
it is recommended to add the install script to your automatic update post scripts.

# User Agreement:
This project is not a company or business. By using this project’s works, scripts, or code know that you, out of respect are entitled to privacy to highest grade. This product will not try to steal, share, collect, or sell your information. However 3rd parties such at Github may try to use your data without your consent. Users or admins should make reports of issue(s) related to the project’s product to the project to better equip or fix issues for others who may run into the same issue(s). By using this project’s works, scripts, code, or ideas you as the end user or admin agree to the following Warning statement and lack of acknowledge lack of Warranty. As always, give us a Star on Github if you find this useful.
